1- enforce single responsiblity every where in
   calsses, methods and every single place in the app you are building

2-to check the single responsibility for classes do the following:
   * ask the class about each message it has either a method or 
       setters and getters
   *ask the class what is your responsiblity and analyze the answer.

3- to check the single respnsibilty of a class method ask the method
    what is your respinsibily ? and try to make a sentence to describe that
    and analyze the sentence.

4- try to make the class methods know less about the structure of its data (class attributes)

5- after writing any code ask your self is it a TRUE code ?
    T transparent
    R resonable
    U usable
    E examplary

6- never do upfront design to your app code, what for the requirements and do 
   the necessary changes in accordance..


7- Always try to meet the DRY prnciple bye encapsulating code logic in
   reusable cod.

8- memorize the Gof design patterns and always keep them in mind,
   because they favour the SOLID prenciples.

9- pay attension to number of lines in a method, and number of lines in
   a class and number of methods in a class and ask your self should i split
   this code and introduce new classes or methods, does it favour SOLID, DRY,
   TRUE  principles ?

10- never over engineer or build a piece of code before you ask your self
    these design questions.

11- have design questionns for yourself and your code before writing the code,
    and do also design questions after writing each snipped of code.

12- always have a second and more looks in your code.

13- TRUE code meaning :  
 
     * Transparent : 
         The consequences of change should be obvious in the code that is
         changing and in distant code that relies upon it;
     * Reasonable : 
         The cost of any change should be proportional to the benefits the change achieves;
     * Usable: 
         Existing code should be usable in new and unexpected contexts;
     * Exemplary :
         The code itself should encourage those who change it to perpetuate these qualities;


14- Code that is Transparent, Reasonable, Usable, and Exemplary (TRUE) not only meets today’s
     needs but can also be changed to meet the needs of the future.
     The first step in creating code that is TRUE is
      to ensure that each class has a single, well-defined responsibility.

