1- an application is made up of classes and defined by messages.

2- design must be concered by messages that passes between objects.

3- requirements for methods that make up the public interface of a class :
   * to reveal its primary responsibility.
   * are expected to be invoked by others.
   * will not change on a whim.
   * are safe for others to depend on.
   * are throuoghly doucumented in the tests.
   * be explicitly identfied as such
   * be more about what than how
   * have names that, in so far as such you can inticipate, will not change. 
   * takes a hash as an option parameter

4 - requirements for methods that make up the private interface of a class :
   * to handle implemention details.
   * are not expected to be sent by other objects.
   * can change for any reason whatsoever.
   * are unsafe for others to depend on.
   * may not be even referenced in the tests.

5- the design goal is to retain the maximum flixibaility to change in future,
   and at the same time writing the less code possible that meets today's 
   requirements.

6- using UML such as sequence diagrams help you imagine the interaction
   between objects so gives you a clear idea about classed that will be 
   created and the intenion of messages between them.

7- converting requirements to usecases help and then representing usecases in 
   sequenece diagrams make you understand how will you translate the 
   requiremements into a good designed code

8- sequence diagrams makes the design change from class based to message based
   design and that is the starting point for a good design that will come up 
   later on.

9- you do not send messages because you have objects, you have objects because
   you send messages. :)

10- the conversation between object should be about what? not how?
    so the first object does not know how the other objects is doing things,
    instead it just send one reliable message to the other object and getting the 
    result so the other object knows how to do things and replays with a 
    result response to that message sent by the first object.

11- objects that have a simple context are easier to reuse and easier to test.

12- one a message is sent from one object to another the message should
    be as if the first object says: 
    'I know what I want and I trust you to do your parts to accomlish it' to
    the other object.

13- you then should use messages to discover objects.

14- design public interfaces with an eye on minimizing the context they
    require from others.

15- design public interfaces that allow others to get 'what' they want 
    with out knowing 'how' your class implements it or do it.

16- The train wrecks of Demeter violations are clues that there are 
    objects whose public interfaces are lacking.
    Listening to Demeter means paying attention to your point of view.
    If you shift to a message-based perspective, the messages you find will
    become public interfaces in the objects they lead you to discover. However,
    if you are bound by the shackles of existing domain objects, you’ll end up
    assembling their exist-ing public interfaces into long message chains and
    thus will miss the opportunity to find and construct flexible public
    interfaces.

17- violationg the law of demeter 'LoD' can idicate a lack in the public 
    interface of the public interface since you have to dig deeper to call
    a message.

18- to know if you are violating the LoD or not check what the chan of dots 
    'the train wrecks' return each time, if they return a new object each time
    then you are violating the law of demeter. to more accurate if they 
    return 3 or more different objects by the end of the chain.
